Add `/topics` pages (#644)
OpenSats/website: data/topics/ark.mdx

---
title: 'Ark'
summary: 'A second-layer Bitcoin protocol that uses a shared UTXO and a coordinator to let users transact off-chain without opening channels.'
category: 'Scaling'
aliases: ['Ark protocol']
---

> Ark is a proposed off-chain payment protocol for Bitcoin. Users deposit into a shared output controlled by a coordinator (called the Ark Service Provider), receive virtual UTXOs ("vTXOs"), and can send those vTXOs to each other inside the same round. At any time, a user can unilaterally exit back to an on-chain UTXO without the coordinator's cooperation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ark is a proposed off-chain payment protocol for Bitcoin. Users deposit into a shared output controlled by a coordinator (called the Ark Service Provider), receive virtual UTXOs ("vTXOs"), and can send those vTXOs to each other during an interactive process known as "round". At any time, a user can unilaterally exit back to an on-chain UTXO without the coordinator's cooperation.
```

> Compared to Lightning, Ark does not require users to open channels, manage inbound liquidity, or stay online. The trade-off is that vTXOs have an expiry: if the user does not refresh them before the round ends, they have to exit on chain or lose control of the funds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Compared to Lightning, Ark does not require users to open channels, manage inbound liquidity, or stay online. The trade-off is that vTXOs have an expiry: if the user does not refresh them before the round ends, they have to exit on chain or risk to lose control of the funds.
```

The protocol is still under active research and development. The site [arkdev.info](https://arkdev.info/) collects current specifications and implementations such as [ark-network/ark](https://github.com/ark-network/ark).

## References

- [Ark: An Alternative Privacy-preserving Second Layer Solution](https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/bitcoin-dev/2023-May/021694.html)
- [ark-protocol.org](https://ark-protocol.org/)
- [arkdev.info](https://arkdev.info/)

> - [ark-network/ark](https://github.com/ark-network/ark)

Reviewer: This link redirects me here now: https://github.com/arkade-os/arkd

Maybe:
```suggestion
- [arkade-os/arkd](https://github.com/arkade-os/arkd)
```

> - [arkade-os](https://github.com/arkade-os)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [arkade-os](https://github.com/arkade-os)
- [bark](https://gitlab.com/ark-bitcoin/bark)
```
